README.md, before:

# pysvo - tools for dealing with data from the Theoretical Model Services provided by the Spanish Virtual Observatory

## Description

pysvo is a toolset that was developed for use with StarHorse ([Queiroz et al. 2019](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2018MNRAS.476.2556Q/abstract), [Anders et al. 2019](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2019arXiv190411302A/abstract) ).

Currently, it can do the following things:
- Download and handle transmission curves supplied by the [Filter Profile Service](http://svo2.cab.inta-csic.es/theory/fps3/) of the Spanish Virtual Observatory (SVO)
- Handle some of the stellar model spectra available from the [Theoretical Spectra Webserver](http://svo2.cab.inta-csic.es/theory/newov2/index.php) of the SVO
- Handle some of the most widely used extinction curves
- Calculate extinction coefficients for arbitrary photometric bands on the fly

## Dependencies

You need to have the following python packages installed in order to use pysvo:
- numpy, scipy, astropy, matplotlib, collections
Optional:
- extinction

## Tutorial 

Check out the tutorial [in this directory](https://github.com/fjaellet/pysvo/blob/master/pysvo_tutorial.ipynb).

## Credit
The code would be useless without the huge effort by the SVO group at CAB to create and maintain the Spanish VO services. Thus, if you make use of pysvo as part of your work, please link to this repository, and include the following acknowledgement in your publication:

    This research has made use of the SVO Filter Profile Service (http://svo2.cab.inta-csic.es/theory/fps/) supported from the Spanish MINECO through grant AYA2017-84089

The SVO team also appreciates if you could include the following references in your publication:

    The SVO Filter Profile Service. Rodrigo, C., Solano, E., Bayo, A. http://ivoa.net/documents/Notes/SVOFPS/index.html
    The Filter Profile Service Access Protocol. Rodrigo, C., Solano, E. http://ivoa.net/documents/Notes/SVOFPSDAL/index.html

Initially developed for StarHorse by Friedrich Anders (AIP). A few code snippets dealing with extinction curve of Schlafly et al. (2016) were stolen from Eddie Schlafly (MPIA).

Commit message:

added spectrum download instructions to readme

README.md, after:

# pysvo - tools for dealing with data from the Theoretical Model Services provided by the Spanish Virtual Observatory

## Description

pysvo is a toolset that was developed for use with StarHorse ([Queiroz et al. 2019](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2018MNRAS.476.2556Q/abstract), [Anders et al. 2019](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2019arXiv190411302A/abstract) ).

Currently, it can do the following things:
- Download and handle transmission curves supplied by the [Filter Profile Service](http://svo2.cab.inta-csic.es/theory/fps3/) of the Spanish Virtual Observatory (SVO)
- Handle some of the stellar model spectra available from the [Theoretical Spectra Webserver](http://svo2.cab.inta-csic.es/theory/newov2/index.php) of the SVO
- Handle some of the most widely used extinction curves
- Calculate extinction coefficients for arbitrary photometric bands on the fly

## Setup

You need to have the following python packages installed in order to use pysvo:
- numpy, scipy, astropy, matplotlib, collections
Optional:
- extinction

In order to work properly, currently you have to download the synthetic spectra by hand from [the Theoretical spectra web server](http://svo2.cab.inta-csic.es/theory//newov2/index.php?models=Kurucz) to the folder  ./pysvo/spectrallib/SUBFOLDERNAME/SPECTRUMFILE.txt
where SUBFOLDERNAME is either "Kurucz" or "BT-Settl", and the SPECTRUMFILE names depend on the library used...

This will be automated soon.

## Tutorial 

Check out the tutorial [in this directory](https://github.com/fjaellet/pysvo/blob/master/pysvo_tutorial.ipynb).

## Credit
The code would be useless without the huge effort by the SVO group at CAB to create and maintain the Spanish VO services. Thus, if you make use of pysvo as part of your work, please link to this repository, and include the following acknowledgement in your publication:

    This research has made use of the SVO Filter Profile Service (http://svo2.cab.inta-csic.es/theory/fps/) supported from the Spanish MINECO through grant AYA2017-84089

The SVO team also appreciates if you could include the following references in your publication:

    The SVO Filter Profile Service. Rodrigo, C., Solano, E., Bayo, A. http://ivoa.net/documents/Notes/SVOFPS/index.html
    The Filter Profile Service Access Protocol. Rodrigo, C., Solano, E. http://ivoa.net/documents/Notes/SVOFPSDAL/index.html

Initially developed for StarHorse by Friedrich Anders (AIP). A few code snippets dealing with extinction curve of Schlafly et al. (2016) were stolen from Eddie Schlafly (MPIA).
